Question:1
Ans.

NodeJs
1. Node doesn’t have a predefined “window” object cause it doesn’t have a window to draw anything.
2. “location” object is related to a particular url; that means it is for page specific. So, node doesn’t require that.
3. Node has “global”, which is a predefined global object. It contains several functions that are not available in browsers, cause they are needed for server side works only.
4. “require” object is predefined in Node which is used to include modules in the app.
5. In Node everything is a module. You must keep your code inside a module.

js(Console) :
1. “window” is a predefined global object which has functions and attributes, that have to deal with window that has been drawn.
2. “document”, which is also another predefined global variable in browsers, has the html which is rendered.
3. Browsers may have an object named “global”, but it will be the exact one as “window”.
4. Browsers don’t have “require” predefined. You may include it in your app for asynchronous file loading.
5. Moduling is not mandatory in client side JavaScript, i.e. in browsers.

As both of them are JavaScript executor, and Node uses the JavaScript engine of a browser (Chrome), so differences are not much there. It is just the Node wrapper which has been written on top of JavaScript V8 Runtime engine, which is deleting few objects and also including some according to the requirement of Node.

Question:2

Ans.
Summary:-

the browser
high level flow
parsing HTML
parsing flow
parsing, tokenizer
parse tree, DOM tree
there is certain situations where

Question:4
Ans

Code:-
console.log(typeof (1));
console.log(typeof (1.1));
console.log(typeof ("1.1"));
console.log(typeof (true));
console.log(typeof (null));
console.log(typeof (undefined));
console.log(typeof ([]));
console.log(typeof ({}));
console.log(typeof (NaN));

Output:-
number
number
string
boolean
object
undefined
object
object
number


Question:5
Ans.

JavaScript is a prototype based language, so, whenever we create a function using JavaScript, JavaScript engine adds a prototype property inside a function, Prototype property is basically an object (also known as Prototype object), where we can attach methods and properties in a prototype object,